---
defaults:
  # _posts
  - scope:
      path: ""
      type: posts
    values:
      layout: single
      author_profile: true
      read_time: true
      comments: true
      share: true
      related: true
---

The core technology is HTTP - Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It's the communication protocol you use when you browse the web.

At a fundamental level, when you visit a website, your browser makes an HTTP request to a server. Then that server responds with a resource (an image, video, or the HTML of a web page) -  which your browser then displays for you.

This is HTTP's message-based model. Every HTTP interaction includes a request and a response.

By its nature, HTTP is stateless.

Stateless means that all requests are separate from each other. So each request from your browser must contain enough information on its own for the server to fulfill the request. That also means that each transaction of the message based model of HTTP is processed separately from the others.

URLs
The URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is probably the most known concept of the Web. It is also one of most important and useful concepts. A URL is a web address used to identify resources on the Web.

The idea of the web is structured around resources. From its beginnings the Web was the platform for sharing text/HTML files, documents, images etc, and as such it can be considered a collection of resources.


Example of an URL
Protocol — Most often they are HTTP (or HTTPS for a secure version of HTTP).

Other notable protocols are:

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) — is a standard protocol used for transferring files between a client and a server over a network.
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is a standard for email transmission.
Domain — Name that is used to identify one or more IP addresses where the resource is located.

Path —Specifies the resource location on the server. It uses the same logic as a resource location used on the device where you are reading this article (i.e. /search/cars/VWBeetle.pdf or C:/my cars/VWBeetle.pdf).

Parameters — Additional data used to identify or filter the resource on the server.

Note: When searching for articles and more information about HTTP, you may encounter the term URI (or uniform resource identifier). URI is sometimes being used instead of URL but mostly in formal specifications and by people who want to show off. :)
